ports/stm32f4xx/README.md, before:

### BACnet MS/TP on NUCLEO-F429ZI STM32 Platform

The NUCLEO-F429ZI platform includes the following peripherals:

1) USB ST-Link

2) Ethernet

3) Arduino Uno V3 compatible RS485 shield (DFR0259)

### NUCLEO-F429ZI Arduino Uno V3 Pin Mapping

| NUCLEO   | STM32F4xx   | Arduino     | RS485 DFR0259
|:---------|:------------|:------------|:------------
| CN8-1    | NC          | NC          |
| CN8-3    | IOREF       | IOREF       |
| CN8-5    | RESET       | RESET       | RST BUTTON
| CN8-7    | +3V3        | +3V3        |
| CN8-9    | +5V         | +5V         | +5V
| CN8-11   | GND         | GND         | GND
| CN8-13   | GND         | GND         | GND
| CN8-15   | VIN         | VIN         |
|          |             |             |
| CN9-1    | PA3         | A0          |
| CN9-3    | PC0         | A1          |
| CN9-5    | PC3         | A2          |
| CN9-7    | PF3         | A3          |
| CN9-9    | PF5         | A4          |
| CN9-11   | PF10        | A5          |
| CN9-13   | NC          | D72         |
| CN9-15   | PA7         | D71         |
| CN9-17   | PF2         | D70         |
| CN9-19   | PF1         | D69         |
| CN9-21   | PF0         | D68         |
| CN9-23   | GND         | GND         |
| CN9-25   | PD0         | D67         |
| CN9-27   | PD1         | D66         |
| CN9-29   | PG0         | D65         |
|          |             |             |
| CN7-2    | PB8         | D15         |
| CN7-4    | PB9         | D14         |
| CN7-6    | AVDD        | AVDD        |
| CN7-8    | GND         | GND         |
| CN7-10   | PA5         | D13         | LED-L ANODE (+) (DFR0259)
| CN7-12   | PA6         | D12         |
| CN7-14   | PA7         | D11         |
| CN7-16   | PD14        | D10         |
| CN7-18   | PD15        | D9          | CE (LINKSPRITE V2.1)
| CN7-20   | PF12        | D8          |
|          |             |             |
| CN10-2   | PF13        | D7          |
| CN10-4   | PE9         | D6          |
| CN10-6   | PE11        | D5          |
| CN10-8   | PF14        | D4          |
| CN10-10  | PE13        | D3          |
| CN10-12  | PF15        | D2          | CE (DFR0259)
| CN10-14  | PG14        | D1          | TXD
| CN10-16  | PG9         | D0          | RXD

### Building this Project

#### IAR EWARM Project

There is an IAR EWARM project bacnet.ewp that can be used to build the project.

#### GNU Makefile

There is a GNU Makefile that uses arm-none-eabi-gcc to build the project.
It also includes recipes for openocd or stlink, and gdb or ddd for debugging.

This is used in the continuous integration pipeline to validate the build
is not broken.  The Makefile is called from an Ubuntu image container
after installing the necesary tools:

    sudo apt-get update -qq
    sudo apt-get install -qq build-essential
    sudo apt-get install -qq gcc-arm-none-eabi
    sudo apt-get install -qq libnewlib-arm-none-eabi

For debugging, install these tools:

    sudo apt-get update -qq
    sudo apt-get install -qq openocd gdb-multiarch

#### CMake & Visual Studio Code

There is a CMakeLists.txt file that enables building the project with the
tools that CMake can find.  It is useful under Visual Studio Code editor
with the CMake Tools extension for quickly configuring the build environment,
choosing a cross-compiler, and building.

For Visual Studio Code debugging, add the Cortex-Debug extension, and configure
its settings for the specific OS and path of the tools.  For Windows using
MinGW64:

    "cortex-debug.armToolchainPath.windows": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin",
    "cortex-debug.gdbPath.windows": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin/gdb-multiarch.exe",
    "cortex-debug.objdumpPath.windows": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin/objdump.exe",
    "cortex-debug.openocdPath.windows": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin/openocd.exe",

To add the build and debug tools to MinGW64 environment:

    pacman --noconfirm -S mingw-w64-x86_64-arm-none-eabi-gcc
    pacman --noconfirm -S mingw-w64-x86_64-openocd
    pacman --noconfirm -S mingw-w64-x86_64-gdb-multiarch

Commit message:

Add shield option explanation to ports/stm32f4xx/README.md (#749)

ports/stm32f4xx/README.md, after:

### BACnet MS/TP on NUCLEO-F429ZI STM32 Platform

The NUCLEO-F429ZI platform includes the following peripherals:

1) USB ST-Link

2) Ethernet

3) Arduino Uno V3 compatible RS485 shield (DFR0259)

### NUCLEO-F429ZI Arduino Uno V3 Pin Mapping

| NUCLEO   | STM32F4xx   | Arduino     | RS485 DFR0259
|:---------|:------------|:------------|:------------
| CN8-1    | NC          | NC          |
| CN8-3    | IOREF       | IOREF       |
| CN8-5    | RESET       | RESET       | RST BUTTON
| CN8-7    | +3V3        | +3V3        |
| CN8-9    | +5V         | +5V         | +5V
| CN8-11   | GND         | GND         | GND
| CN8-13   | GND         | GND         | GND
| CN8-15   | VIN         | VIN         |
|          |             |             |
| CN9-1    | PA3         | A0          |
| CN9-3    | PC0         | A1          |
| CN9-5    | PC3         | A2          |
| CN9-7    | PF3         | A3          |
| CN9-9    | PF5         | A4          |
| CN9-11   | PF10        | A5          |
| CN9-13   | NC          | D72         |
| CN9-15   | PA7         | D71         |
| CN9-17   | PF2         | D70         |
| CN9-19   | PF1         | D69         |
| CN9-21   | PF0         | D68         |
| CN9-23   | GND         | GND         |
| CN9-25   | PD0         | D67         |
| CN9-27   | PD1         | D66         |
| CN9-29   | PG0         | D65         |
|          |             |             |
| CN7-2    | PB8         | D15         |
| CN7-4    | PB9         | D14         |
| CN7-6    | AVDD        | AVDD        |
| CN7-8    | GND         | GND         |
| CN7-10   | PA5         | D13         | LED-L ANODE (+) (DFR0259)
| CN7-12   | PA6         | D12         |
| CN7-14   | PA7         | D11         |
| CN7-16   | PD14        | D10         |
| CN7-18   | PD15        | D9          | CE (LINKSPRITE V2.1)
| CN7-20   | PF12        | D8          |
|          |             |             |
| CN10-2   | PF13        | D7          |
| CN10-4   | PE9         | D6          |
| CN10-6   | PE11        | D5          |
| CN10-8   | PF14        | D4          |
| CN10-10  | PE13        | D3          |
| CN10-12  | PF15        | D2          | CE (DFR0259)
| CN10-14  | PG14        | D1          | TXD
| CN10-16  | PG9         | D0          | RXD

### Building this Project

#### IAR EWARM Project

There is an IAR EWARM project bacnet.ewp that can be used to build the project.

#### GNU Makefile

There is a GNU Makefile that uses arm-none-eabi-gcc to build the project.
It also includes recipes for openocd or stlink, and gdb or ddd for debugging.

This is used in the continuous integration pipeline to validate the build
is not broken.  The Makefile is called from an Ubuntu image container
after installing the necesary tools:

    sudo apt-get update -qq
    sudo apt-get install -qq build-essential
    sudo apt-get install -qq gcc-arm-none-eabi
    sudo apt-get install -qq libnewlib-arm-none-eabi

For debugging, install these tools:

    sudo apt-get update -qq
    sudo apt-get install -qq openocd gdb-multiarch

##### Shield option

If, instead of the DFR0259 shield for RS485, the build is intended for the
linksprite shield, `make SHIELD=linksprite` can be used.

#### CMake & Visual Studio Code

There is a CMakeLists.txt file that enables building the project with the
tools that CMake can find.  It is useful under Visual Studio Code editor
with the CMake Tools extension for quickly configuring the build environment,
choosing a cross-compiler, and building.

For Visual Studio Code debugging, add the Cortex-Debug extension, and configure
its settings for the specific OS and path of the tools.  For Windows using
MinGW64:

    "cortex-debug.armToolchainPath.windows": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin",
    "cortex-debug.gdbPath.windows": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin/gdb-multiarch.exe",
    "cortex-debug.objdumpPath.windows": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin/objdump.exe",
    "cortex-debug.openocdPath.windows": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin/openocd.exe",

To add the build and debug tools to MinGW64 environment:

    pacman --noconfirm -S mingw-w64-x86_64-arm-none-eabi-gcc
    pacman --noconfirm -S mingw-w64-x86_64-openocd
    pacman --noconfirm -S mingw-w64-x86_64-gdb-multiarch
